Countably compact + meta-Lindelof => compact (#1030)
pi-base/data: theorems/T000107.md

if:
  and:
  - P000019: true
  - P000083: true
then:
  P000016: true
refs:
- doi: 10.3792/pja/1195526497
  name: A note on compactness and metacompactness (Boyte)
---

> Theorem 1 and the following Remark of {{doi:10.3792/pja/1195526497}}: every point-countable open cover
> without a countable subcover witnesses a sequence without a cluster point.
> Thus if a space is {P19}, every point-countable open cover
> must have a countable subcover; and by {P19} again we have a finite subcover.
> It follows by {P83} that every open cover has a finite refinement, proving
> {P16}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Theorem 1 and the following Remark of {{doi:10.3792/pja/1195526497}} show that
in any topological space admitting a point-countable open cover without a countable subcover,
one can construct a sequence without an
[accumulation point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accumulation_point_(sequence));
and thus such a space cannot be {P19}.

Now let $\mathcal U$ be an open cover of $X$.
If $X$ is {P83}, $\mathcal U$ has a point-countable open refinement $\mathcal V$.
If $X$ is also {P19}, $\mathcal V$ has a countable subcover by the previous paragraph;
and by {P19} again, $\mathcal V$ has a finite subcover,
which is a finite open refinement of $\mathcal U$.  This proves $X$ is {P16}.
```
